(pleasant guitar music)
Alright we are going to start converting
our Mongo based recipe application
over to a Reactive Mongo recipe application.
And effectively what I'm gonna do is
work from the database up and really to
take full advantage of Reactive programming
you want to be end-to-end.
So we have a Reactive database driver
with MongoDB and Thymeleaf is also Reactive.
So, but we need to get that Reactive object
all the way through the chain.
But we're gonna do that a step at a time,
one step at a time, so the first thing
we need to do is address our dependencies
and there's a couple things going on here
inside the gradle build, or build.gradle
and what we have there on line 34
is the starter-web and we're gonna keep
that in place right now.
And line 35 I put in webflux and we're gonna
get into that in the future of the course,
but not just yet.
That's gonna be driving a number of changes
because we'll be using the Reactive webstack
but we're gonna focus on the backend for right now.
So you can see on line 38 I've gone in and
added the starter-data-mongodb-reactive
so that's what Spring brings in our
Reactive driver for MongoDB.
And then down on testCompile you can see that we
have the Reactive test framework that we're adding
as well and we'll get into that in the
future of the course.
But what we wanna do right now is I'm
gonna create a repository, so,
let's take a look at the UnitOfMeasureRepository
and just as recap this is gonna be return back
an Optional and we're using generics
there for UnitOfMeasure, and then we also
have the full CRUD operations as well
that are implemented by the CrudRepository.
So if you remember these are the
different methods that we have.
And let's go ahead and close this.
And we are going to, I'm starting a new package
we'll stand these up together so
I'm gonna do a New Java Class,
actually want it Interface.
So we'll call it UnitOfMeasureReactiveRepository
Go ahead and add that into Git.
And now, we wanna extend, uh oh
ReactiveMongoRepository
So just like the other Spring data repositories,
we're gonna pass in the entity or in this case
the document class and then the
property of the id.
So let's take a quick look at what we get here.
And the Reactive Repository, this looks
oddly just like the CrudRepository we have.
You can see that it's extending out a couple
repositories so this is gonna behave very similar
to the CrudRepository that we had
but now we went from a generic Spring data
interface, the CrudRepository interface
is gonna work across a number of different
Spring data implementations.
Now we're going into a specific MongoRepository
that has Reactive features.
And we can see that this is gonna be
returning Reactive types, Flux, and Mono
and these are Reactive publishers
so we get that Reactive type and then
we're gonna be passing these Fluxes and Monos
all the way into Thymeleaf but first
let's make sure that this is gonna be working
I'm gonna go ahead and close out these.
And I'm going to do something very
very simple here.
And we'll just use this for testing for right now.
Because I'd wanna introduce you
to what's going on here, I'm gonna
autowire that in.
So this is temporary normally I modify
the constructor but I am just doing this for play.
And let's go ahead, come up here
and I'm intentionally using the error debug
because I wanna make sure that it shows up.
And here what we wanna do is take up
get the reactiveRepository here
and let's get a count.
Now, can see here that it is complaining
and we're not doing anything here
because it's a Reactive type and we've
asked it for a count and that is going
to return back a Mono, so that Mono is
a publisher so if we don't ask anything
from that publisher, it's just gonna
blow right by that and nothing's going to happen.
So what we're gonna do is call block on it.
Now that block is gonna say "okay, run this now."
So this is blocking now something we wanna do
so this is just temporary.
This is just for us to start getting used to
dealing with Reactive types.
And now I wanna do a toString so that block
says, "Okay publisher give me that one Mono"
and in this case that's gonna return back a Long
which is the count and now I'm gonna convert
that Long to a toString and I'll put the error message.
So let's go ahead and run this now.
And I'm getting a little warning there.
So I've been doing some modifications here.
Told you I just get a little confused.
And we can see I got a count of zero
which is not what we wanted.
Make sure that is in truth the actual one that we did
and I'm gonna run this one more time.
And that is zero and I see exactly what I did wrong.
This should be here.
So I bet that's gonna work a lot better now.
Let's go ahead and run this one more time.
And now we can see we're getting expected behavior
so I put a bunch of pound signs there and we
can see we're getting a lot of chatter there
in the log file that's why we get a little
bit of spacing there but my count
out of the unitOfMeasure is indeed eight
so what this proves out is that
our Reactive Repository is getting wired up
and it is working.
Spring data Mongo is providing us a
Reactive Repository and we just got
our first Reactive type back.
So I think this is some cool stuff
that we're gonna be working with.
A lot more to go here.